why you don't need seo wait
what hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over
at webchoiceuk.com and host the top 100
marketing podcast
business growth show you might think
this is totally counterintuitive as i
talk about
growing your business with seo with
websites with digital marketing
all the time but bear with me until the
end and you'll see where i'm going with
this
all right so i'm going to share 10
reasons why you don't need seo
but first of all let's have a quick
explanation of what seo means
seo stands for search engine
optimization and in simple terms
it is the process of getting your
website to page one of google's organic
search results so not the paid listing
so you've got google ads at the top and
the bottom if you do a desktop search
and in between that you've got the juicy
organic non-paid listings
and why do people do seo well typically
it might be because they want to reduce
their ad spend over time
they want to build up their brand their
reputation and most importantly
they want to drive more free traffic to
their site
generate more sales revenue leads
and build their brand so with that said
let's jump into point one
well why wouldn't you do seo well it's
not instant unlike facebook ads google
ads
and sponsored ads it's typically a
long-term strategy
it may be faster if you're a small
business operating in a
quite a small area and you don't have
much competition
but if you're a business operating
nationally or you're in quite a
competitive industry or
even serving internationally then
typically you're talking several months
to see decent results it can be six
months onwards
so it's something you need to bear in
mind is a long term
process to bear the fruits of your labor
number two it does require work on your
website it's seo typically requires
on-site work initially once you've
agreed with your partner or yourself
that you're working with seo on that
the keywords you want to actually target
you need to do things on your website so
whether that is
there's a recent update google rolled
out called google core web vital so
that's things like making sure your
website has a mobile first design so it
works awesome on mobile
so it loads really fast a really good
page speed and
it's nice and quick other things like
sorting out your metadata
your page titles heading tags your old
image tags and all that technical stuff
that needs to be done on your website as
well as the content on your website it's
all gonna need
work to get your seo strategy and your
foundation before you're doing off-site
work
before you start jumping into building
backlinks content distribution
and all that good stuff you need to make
sure your website has a solid foundation
for the search terms you want to target
and ultimately so providing a great
experience for users
thirdly you will need to create content
so as part of seo content is a big thing
so that could be service pages and
information pages on your website it
could be
blog articles it could be press releases
off of your site it could be
infographics it could be videos
all these different types of content of
media you'll need to create on your
website and distribute off your website
to get the best seo results possible so
it's gonna need time from yourself or
your agency on that
number four well seo is going to
increase your traffic
and if you don't want more traffic to
your website that's quite a scary
thought right
uh yeah a bit of a joke but um yeah
certainly over time it's going to drive
more people to your site if you're
getting closer to page one
you're going to get more visitors number
five
your sales team may may go into absolute
shock when an inbound lead comes through
website it's bringing to many business
owners over the years
and many many websites are just static
so once we start
seo once we get into it once we start
doing that work on the website and off
the website
we start doing all these strategies that
are going to boost up your rankings
that's when the good stuff happens when
you start getting more traffic and when
the leads start coming in
and at six you're gonna have to invest
time
learning it yourself so you're gonna
have to read a bunch of guides
literature video guides whatever it may
be to learn all the processes
of seo from start to ongoing and best
practices
or you're gonna have to hire a company
or a freelancer
to do the work for you at seven
your brand may become well recognized um
so you're gonna get with seo becomes
reputation so a lot of people now are
aware when you do a google search a lot
of people know what are paid ads and
they know that companies are paying for
those
so more people than ever uh clicking the
organic results the seo results because
they know
that brands are simply paying per click
and they place
more brand confidence i guess on those
that are in the non-paid organic
listings
um and with that if people constantly
see your company name coming up when
they do a search it's gonna improve your
brand visibility
and your trust and at eight
if you're spending a lot of money on ads
over time seo can help you reduce that
spend which is going to be a shame if
you love paying tv stations radio
stations facebook ads
sponsored ads and all that good stuff
but if you like saving money
um over time seo is going to help you
out
number nine you may need to upgrade your
hosting
with all this new traffic that you get
over time you might need to upgrade your
your storage
your memory your bandwidth on your
hosting to cope with all the visitors
it's a bit of an extra expense but
ultimately if your site's generating
your revenue
can't be too bad i guess number 10
so one of my big issues the final point
with seo
is that there is a lot of bs in the
industry so
having done this probably 10 plus years
or so now there's many
consultants many agencies that try and
bamboozle try and confuse you into
buying seo
and try and use all this technical
jargon on your website off your website
all these kind of large
words and basically confuse people into
buying which something i hate
i mean ultimately if you're gonna deal
with a person outside your company to do
seo you need to make sure they
understand your business
they understand how you make money or
what you want to get out of the seo
campaign whether that's building your
brand your website traffic generating
more leads generating more customers
where you are right now and where you
need to get to and say 12 months of the
campaign
and making sure they take the time to
understand you rather than force a
solution or confuse you to buy
and there we have it those are the 10
reasons not to do seo
as you've probably seen a lot of this is
a bit of a joke a bit of a parody
with some serious points but i hope
that's given you a better idea of some
of the advantages
seo can actually bring to the table long
term to grow your business
and grow your sales if you enjoyed this
episode as always
do hit that subscribe button and with
that i shall catch you
on the next one